Preparing for
attacks is an important job that the
entire security team is responsible for.
Threat actors have many tools they
can use depending on their target.
For example,
attacking a small business can be
different from attacking a public utility.
Each have different assets and
specific defenses to keep them safe.
In all cases, anticipating attacks
is the key to preparing for them.
In security, we do that by performing
an activity known as threat modeling.
Threat modeling is a process
of identifying assets,
their vulnerabilities, and
how each is exposed to threats.
We apply threat modeling to everything
we protect. Entire systems,
applications, or business processes
all get examined from this
security-related perspective.
Creating threat models is a lengthy and
detailed activity.
They're normally performed by a collection
of individuals with years of experience in
the field.
Because of that, it's considered to
be an advanced skill in security.
However, that doesn't mean
you won't be involved.
There are several threat modeling
frameworks used in the field.
Some are better suited for
network security. Others are better for
things like information security,
or application development.
In general,
there are six steps of a threat model.
The first is to define
the scope of the model.
At this stage, the team determines
what they're building by creating
an inventory of assets and
classifying them.
The second step is to identify threats.
Here, the team defines all
potential threat actors.
A threat actor is any person or
group who presents a security risk.
Threat actors are characterized
as being internal or external.
For example, an internal threat
actor could be an employee
who intentionally expose an asset to harm.
An example of an external threat
actor could be a malicious hacker, or
a competing business.
After threat actors have been identified,
the team puts together what's
known as an attack tree.
An attack tree is a diagram
that maps threats to assets.
The team tries to be as detailed
as possible when constructing
this diagram before moving on.
Step three of the threat modeling process
is to characterize the environment.
Here, the team applies an attacker
mindset to the business.
They consider how the customers and
employees interact with the environment.
Other factors they consider are external
partners and third party vendors.
At step four, their objective
is to analyze threats.
Here, the team works together to examine
existing protections and identify gaps.
They then rank threats according to
their risk score that they assign.
During step five,
the team decides how to mitigate risk.
At this point, the group creates their
plan for defending against threats.
The choices here are to avoid risk,
transfer it, reduce it, or accept it.
The sixth and
final step is to evaluate findings.
At this stage, everything that was done
during the exercise is documented,
fixes are applied, and the team makes
note of any successes they had.
They also record any lessons learned, so
they can inform how they
approach future threat models.
That's an overview of the general
threat modeling process.
What we've explored was just
one of many methods that exist.